Document "Connect your wallet" for asset hub smart contracts (#300)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet.md

---

> title: Connect your Wallet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Connect Your Wallet to Asset Hub
```

description: Learn to connect MetaMask to the Asset Hub blockchain. Set up your wallet, switch networks, and request test tokens for development.
---

> # Connect your Wallet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Connect Your Wallet
```

## Connect to Asset Hub Using MetaMask

> MetaMask is a popular wallet for interacting with EVM-compatible chains, allowing users to connect to test networks that support Ethereum-based smart contracts. This article provides guidance on setting up MetaMask, connecting to the contracts deployed on the EVM-compatible test network, the Westend Asset Hub, and requesting test tokens for development purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MetaMask is a popular wallet for interacting with EVM-compatible chains. It allows users to connect to test networks that support Ethereum-based smart contracts. This article guides setting up MetaMask, connecting to the contracts deployed on the EVM-compatible test network, the Westend Asset Hub, and requesting test tokens for development purposes.
```

> It’s important to emphasize that MetaMask primarily facilitates interactions with smart contracts, giving you access to various functionalities available on the chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's important to emphasize that MetaMask primarily facilitates interactions with smart contracts, giving you access to various chain functionalities.
```

## Prerequisites

To get started with MetaMask, you need to install the [MetaMask extension](https://metamask.io/download/){target=\_blank} and add it to the browser. Once you install MetaMask, you can set up a new wallet and securely store your seed phrase. This phrase is crucial for recovery in case you lose access.

## Connect to the Asset Hub Westend TestNet

To connect to the Westend Asset Hub TestNet via MetaMask, you need to follow these steps:

1. Open the MetaMask extension and click on the network icon to switch to the Asset Hub Westend TestNet

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-1.webp){: .browser-extension}

2. Click on the **Add a custom network** button

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-2.webp){: .browser-extension}

3. Fill in the required fields with the following parameters and click the **Save** button

>     === "Network Details"

Reviewer: I don't love how RPC endpoints is a separate tab. For this sort of thing, I'd probably prefer a table that opts for rows that can be easily copied and using the parity RPC endpoint as the default. I feel like we've sort of come across this situation before, so something to revisit later on. But for now this is fine

Author: Agree here, okay, we can circle back on this later on

        **Network name** - `Asset-Hub Westend TestNet`

        ---

        **Currency symbol** - `WND`

        ---
        
        **Chain ID** - ```420420421```

        ---
        
        **Block explorer URL** - ```https://assethub-westend.subscan.io```

> 
>         ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    === "RPC Endpoints"
        Dwellir
        ```
        wss://westend-asset-hub-eth-rpc.polkadot.io
        ```
        ---
        Dwellir Tunisia
        ```
        wss://westmint-rpc.polkadot.io
        ```
        ---
        IBP1
        ```
        wss://rpc.ibp.network/asset-hub-westend
        ```
        ---
        IBP2
        ```
        wss://asset-hub-westend.dotters.network
        ```
        ---
        Parity
        ```
        wss://westend-asset-hub-rpc.polkadot.io
        ```

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-3.webp){: .browser-extension}

> 4. Click on the **Asset-Hub Westend TestNet** to switch the network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click on **Asset-Hub Westend TestNet** to switch the network
```

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-4.webp){: .browser-extension}

## Request Test Tokens

> To start conducting transactions and interacting with smart contracts on the Asset Hub Westend TestNet, you'll need test WND tokens. Here's how to get them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start conducting transactions and interacting with smart contracts on the Asset Hub Westend TestNet, you'll need WND test tokens. Here's how to get them:
```

1. Navigate to the [Westend Asset Hub Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend?parachain=1000){target=\_blank}

2. Copy your MetaMask address linked to the Westend Asset Hub and paste it into the designated field

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-5.webp)

3. Click the **Get Some WND** button to request free test WND tokens. These tokens will be sent to your MetaMask wallet shortly

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-6.webp)

> 
> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Drop the ## Conclusion section. This is not a standard we should use. You can have a wrap-up sentence without using the header

> Congratulations! You have successfully connected to the Westend Asset Hub using MetaMask and acquired test tokens. This setup allows you to experiment with the network’s functionalities without using real ether or encountering financial risks. Remember to keep your MetaMask credentials secure and never share your wallet’s private key or seed phrase with anyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have successfully connected to the Westend Asset Hub using MetaMask and acquired test tokens. This setup allows you to experiment with the network's functionalities without using real ether or encountering financial risks. Remember to keep your MetaMask credentials secure and never share your wallet's private key or seed phrase with anyone.
```

---
title: Connect your Wallet
description: Learn to connect MetaMask to the Asset Hub blockchain. Set up your wallet, switch networks, and request test tokens for development.
---

# Connect your Wallet

## Connect to Asset Hub Using MetaMask

> MetaMask allows users to connect to the Asset Hub to explore and interact with the chain. This article will guide you step by step on how to set up an EVM-compatible wallet, connect to the Westend Asset Hub, and request test tokens for development testing.

Reviewer 3: This is not accurate 

0. Let's start with what is Westend --> one of the Polkadot test networks.
1. MetaMask is not just to connect to Westend, it can connect to any EVM compat chain
2. Westend is not EVM compat, and soon Kusama and Polkadot will be
3. "explore and interact with the chain" is not correct, you can only interact with smart contracts. You cannot do a balance transfer in Westend with MetaMastk. 
4. In fact, it is important to explore how a user should use a Polkadot-native wallet with Westend, and how MetaMastk, and how they differ.

Author: Thanks, @kianenigma. I assume there’s a typo in item 2, and you meant to say, _"Westend is EVM compatible, and soon Kusama and Polkadot will be."_ 

If so, do you think this introduction covers your points using the correct terminology?

```
MetaMask is a popular wallet for interacting with EVM-compatible chains, allowing users to connect to test networks that support Ethereum-based smart contracts. This article provides guidance on setting up MetaMask, connecting to the contracts deployed on the EVM-compatible test network, the Westend Asset Hub, and requesting test tokens for development purposes.

It’s important to emphasize that MetaMask primarily facilitates interactions with smart contracts, giving you access to various functionalities available on the chain.
```

> MetaMask allows users to connect to the Asset Hub to explore and interact with the chain. This article will guide you step by step on how to set up an EVM-compatible wallet, connect to the Westend Asset Hub, and request test tokens for development testing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
MetaMask allows users to connect to Asset Hub to explore and interact with the chain. This article will guide you step by step on how to set up an EVM-compatible wallet, connect to the Westend Asset Hub, and request test tokens for development testing.
```

## Prerequisites

To get started with MetaMask, you need to install the [MetaMask extension](https://metamask.io/download/){target=\_blank} and add it to the browser. Once you install MetaMask, you can set up a new wallet and securely store your seed phrase. This phrase is crucial for recovery in case you lose access.

## Connect to the Asset Hub Westend TestNet

To connect to the Westend Asset Hub TestNet via MetaMask, you need to follow these steps:

1. Open the MetaMask extension and click in the network icon to switch to the Asset Hub Westend TestNet

>     ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-1.webp)

Reviewer 4: Is it possible to center these images?

Author: It should be possible. Maybe the @polkadot-developers/docs-formatting-team could lend us a hand with this

2. Click on the **Add a custom network** button

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-2.webp)

3. Fill in the required fields with the following parameters and click the **Save** button

    | **Attribute**         | **Value**                                                    |
    |------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
    | **Network name**       | <pre>```Asset-Hub Westend TestNet```</pre>                  |
    | **Default RPC URL**    | <pre>```https://westend-asset-hub-eth-rpc.polkadot.io```</pre> |
    | **Chain ID**           | <pre>```420420421```</pre>                                  |
    | **Currency symbol**    | <pre>```WND```</pre>                                        |
    | **Block explorer URL** | <pre>```https://assethub-westend.subscan.io```       </pre> |

> 

Reviewer 4: Maybe add a note linking to where you can get other RPC URLs

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-3.webp)

4. Click on the **Asset-Hub Westend TestNet** to switch the network

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-4.webp)

## Request Test Tokens

> To start conducting transactions and interacting with smart contracts on the Westend TestNet, you'll need test WND tokens. Here's how to get them:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To start conducting transactions and interacting with smart contracts on the Asset Hub Westend TestNet, you'll need test WND tokens. Here's how to get them:
```

---
title: Connect your Wallet
description: Learn to connect MetaMask to the Asset Hub blockchain. Set up your wallet, switch networks, and request test tokens for development.
---

# Connect your Wallet

## Connect to Asset Hub Using MetaMask

MetaMask allows users to connect to Asset Hub to explore and interact with the chain. This article will guide you step by step on how to set up an EVM-compatible wallet, connect to the Westend Asset Hub, and request test tokens for development testing.

## Prerequisites

To get started with MetaMask, you need to install the [MetaMask extension](https://metamask.io/download/){target=\_blank} and add it to the browser. Once you install MetaMask, you can set up a new wallet and securely store your seed phrase. This phrase is crucial for recovery in case you lose access.

## Connect to the Asset Hub Westend TestNet

To connect to the Westend Asset Hub TestNet via MetaMask, you need to follow these steps:

> 1. Open the MetaMask extension and click in the network icon to switch to the Asset Hub Westend TestNet

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Open the MetaMask extension and click on the network icon to switch to the Asset Hub Westend TestNet
```

>     ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-1.webp)

Reviewer 5: A simple and quick option is to use line style attributes inside the markdown. 
you have to add this `{ style=“display: block; margin: auto;” } `at the end of the link of the images you want to center.

```suggestion
    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-1.webp){ style=“display: block; margin: auto;” }
```

Author: Yeah, I like this, but wouldn't it be better if we use classes instead of the inline styles? Like:
```
    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-1.webp){: .browser-extension}
```
    
This way, we avoid repetition, allowing us to customize all the elements simultaneously if needed. This would imply extending the CSS in the `polkadot-mkdocs` project to add the browser-extension class.

Reviewer 5: It's a good idea. I will try it locally to see how it looks.

        ---
        
        **Block explorer URL** - ```https://assethub-westend.subscan.io```

        ---

    === "RPC Endpoints"
        Dwellir
        ```
        wss://westend-asset-hub-eth-rpc.polkadot.io
        ```
        ---
        Dwellir Tunisia
        ```
        wss://westmint-rpc.polkadot.io
        ```
        ---
        IBP1
        ```
        wss://rpc.ibp.network/asset-hub-westend
        ```
        ---
        IBP2
        ```
        wss://asset-hub-westend.dotters.network
        ```
        ---
        Parity
        ```
        wss://westend-asset-hub-rpc.polkadot.io
        ```

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-3.webp)

4. Click on the **Asset-Hub Westend TestNet** to switch the network

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-4.webp)

## Request Test Tokens

To start conducting transactions and interacting with smart contracts on the Asset Hub Westend TestNet, you'll need test WND tokens. Here's how to get them:

1. Navigate to the [Westend Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend?parachain=1000){target=\_blank}

> 2. Copy your MetaMask address linked to the Westend Asset Hub and paste it into the designated field on the Faucet page

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. Copy your MetaMask address linked to the Westend Asset Hub and paste it into the designated field on the **Faucet page**
```

Author: I think `**` should be used when referring to an element present in the UI that we want to highlight. In this case, there is no "Faucet Page" in the image below

However, I re-read this item, and maybe it'd be better to rephrase this into:
```
2. Copy your MetaMask address linked to the Westend Asset Hub and paste it into the designated field
```

Reviewer 5: Yeah, that's much better 👍

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/connect-your-wallet/connect-your-wallet-5.webp)

> 3. Click **Get Some WND** button to request free test WND tokens. These tokens will be sent to your MetaMask wallet shortly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Click **Get Some WND** button to request free test WND tokens. These tokens will be sent to your MetaMask wallet shortly
```

> 3. Click **Get Some WND** button to request free test WND tokens. These tokens will be sent to your MetaMask wallet shortly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Get Some WND** button to request free test WND tokens. These tokens will be sent to your MetaMask wallet shortly.
```
